README.md, before:

# Influence of Natural Disasters on Climate Change Discussion

## Abstract

Climate change is a central issue in our world today and it has already had observable effects on the environment and rising temperatures are fueling environmental degradation through natural disasters and weather extremes. The consequences will become more and more devastating and will likely also reach irreversible highs. As young adults, these dire consequences are something that we become more and more prone to experiencing firsthand. The goal of this project is to determine how natural disaster occurrences influence the discussion around climate change. We would like to determine to what degree a particular natural disaster, such as a hurricane, sparks conversation around the topic of climate change. We would like to find out if the issue of climate change has become a more central topic over time as a result of natural disasters having potentially become increasingly severe.

## Research Questions

Do particular natural disasters influence the discussion around climate change? Do certain natural disasters have a bigger influence than others? Is there a geographical link between the two, i.e., is there more discussion about climate change when natural distasters occur in specific regions rather than others? Could we estimate the impact that a hypothetical major tsunami in the United States would have on climate change disucssions? Have natural disasters generally become more and more severe over the last years in terms of number of casualties or duration for example? If so, is there a significant correlation between the increased severity and the amount of attention climate change gets in the news? 

## Additional Datasets



## Methods

## Proposed Timeline

## Internal Milestones

## Questions for TAs

## Markdown Examples

Command line
```bash
pip install foobar
```

Python code
```python
import foobar

# returns 'words'
foobar.pluralize('word')

# returns 'geese'
foobar.pluralize('goose')

# returns 'phenomenon'
foobar.singularize('phenomena')
```

Links
[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

Commit message:

EM-DAT database initial description

README.md, after:

# Influence of Natural Disasters on Climate Change Discussion

## Abstract

Climate change is a central issue in our world today and it has already had observable effects on the environment and rising temperatures are fueling environmental degradation through natural disasters and weather extremes. The consequences will become more and more devastating and will likely also reach irreversible highs. As young adults, these dire consequences are something that we become more and more prone to experiencing firsthand. The goal of this project is to determine how natural disaster occurrences influence the discussion around climate change. We would like to determine to what degree a particular natural disaster, such as a hurricane, sparks conversation around the topic of climate change. We would like to find out if the issue of climate change has become a more central topic over time as a result of natural disasters having potentially become increasingly severe.

## Research Questions

Do particular natural disasters influence the discussion around climate change? Do certain natural disasters have a bigger influence than others? Is there a geographical link between the two, i.e., is there more discussion about climate change when natural distasters occur in specific regions rather than others? Could we estimate the impact that a hypothetical major tsunami in the United States would have on climate change disucssions? Have natural disasters generally become more and more severe over the last years in terms of number of casualties or duration for example? If so, is there a significant correlation between the increased severity and the amount of attention climate change gets in the news? 

## Additional Datasets

### EM-DAT Database

EM-DAT is a database on natural and technological disasters, containing essential data on the occurrence and effects of more than 21,000 disasters in the world, from 1900 to present. EM-DAT is maintained by the Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of Disasters (CRED) at the School of Public Health of the Université catholique de Louvain located in Brussels, Belgium. 

A disaster has to conform to at least one of the following criteria:

- 10 or more people dead;
- 100 or more people affected;
- The declaration of a state of emergency
- A call for international assistance

Datasets can be extracted for free from the EM-DAT database for non-commercial purposes, such as ours. A dataset can be extracted according to specifications such as time intervals (startyear-endyear), disaster types and (sub)subtypes (Natural -> Meteorological -> Storm -> Tropical cyclone) and geographical location (continents, regions, countries). The datasets can only be downloaded as .xlsx files but can be converted to CSV using a [conversion](https://cloudconvert.com/xlsx-to-csv) tool. 

A retrieved dataset contains relevant information such as:
- Disaster type (hierarchy from Group to Subsubtype)
- Geographical location (Continent, Region, Country and specific locations such as cities/districts)
- Duration (start date - end date)
- Impact (deaths, injuries, number of affected, number of homeless, damages and reconstruction costs in USD$)

There is additional information such as physical attributes of the disaster (such as the are covered by a flood), aid contributions in USD$ and the source of the information. This data could serve a purpose in our project but it is quite sparse.

The dataset containing all natural disasters for all continents between 2015 and 2020 has 2298 rows contained in a CSV file of size 885KB.

## Methods

## Proposed Timeline

## Internal Milestones

## Questions for TAs

## Markdown Examples

Command line
```bash
pip install foobar
```

Python code
```python
import foobar

# returns 'words'
foobar.pluralize('word')

# returns 'geese'
foobar.pluralize('goose')

# returns 'phenomenon'
foobar.singularize('phenomena')
```

Links
[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
